---
title: Second Biweekly Update
date: 2019-02-13 15:27:31
---

## Major Changes
 There have been no major changes to the project; timeline is still the same, and
 project specs in the [syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FP9NxLKu0oAbKUnAQtEWmshNW047A-YwUBGoOy_lv50/edit) are still being followed.<br>


## Accomplishments These Two Weeks
This is the "Looking Ahead" section from the last milestone, and the milestone for this week:
> I plan to complete more of this competitive analysis and start looking into message sending through Android Apps. Implement at least one gesture to the fullest extent, and continue working on the others. Sync with Fannie to ensure that future biosignal hardware is compatible with the app as is.

First, I spent the first few days of these two weeks researching which database would be best for storing heartrate and chat messages. After discussing with Fannie, we decided on Firebase.

Now, I've built a complete skeleton app that allows two users to chat with each other. Users have their
own account, and can view gifs of each other's gestures. Chatting a specific text has a pop-up that
will soon be replaced with gesture detection. Right now, the app uses FireBase's authentication and
database storage for messages.

Fannie and I have have almost confirmed using Polar OH's heartrate band. I predict connecting this won't be a large issue connecting to the database--as long as the phone has Bluetooth connection, the Android application code easily pushes and retrieves information from Firebase now.

## Meeting My Milestone
I am on track to meet my milestone! The design students in charge of gestures are a bit behind, but
instead I will be working on researching the full range of motion that I can detect with the phone.

## Looking Ahead
I'll be refining the baseline code that I have, and will start to flesh out the gestures and how
they'll be detected. I also plan to set aside some time to write full specifications of the database
and flow of intents in the Android app.

There are no major surprises or extra resources needed at this time. I'm looking forward to making more progress on the project!



---