---
title: First Biweekly Update
date: 2019-01-28 15:27:31
---

Biweekly meetings are starting! Below is the report:

## Major Changes
 Since the project is a joint effort with three other students, my advisor Fannie Liu
 has written a syllabus for the proposed timeline that I'll be following. I've revised
 my milestones to correspond to the [syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FP9NxLKu0oAbKUnAQtEWmshNW047A-YwUBGoOy_lv50/edit)
 as shown below: <br>
 * **2/1: Building Base App:** building for functionality, regardless of appearance. Especially
  focus on sending messages through the app. Continue helping brainstorm ideas for gestures,
  and keep track of which gestures are possible for the two other collaborators on project.
 * **2/15: Gesture Implementation:** Implement at least one gesture to the fullest extent, and
  continue working on the others. Sync with Fannie to ensure that future biosignal hardware
  is compatible with the app as is.
 * **3/1: Stress Detection:** Help write the paper in order to meet the HCI Connect deadline of 4/5, incorporate stress detection as outlined by Fannie's hardware specifications and previous research.
 * **3/22: Testing Stress Detection:** Using biosignals will be buggy for sure, 3/22 should mark the beginning of the second week of debugging and calibrating the stress detection system.
 * **4/5: UIST Paper Due:** Interaction Design Implementation; Incorporate the feedback from local user testing and implement the UX design made by project collaborators. Continue tweaking the design and functionality.
 * **5/3: Deliverables:** Will have completed some internal and pilot studies; By 5/6, will have a final deliverable and report with all artifacts created for 15-400 uploaded to a Google Drive with short descriptions. <br>


## Accomplishments These Two Weeks
I have met with my advisor weekly and been coordinating with her through email. I've implemented shaking and raising the phone, since that was briefly mentioned before the semester ended. These past two weeks, I've been doing a [competitive analysis](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1KxSLijEw_-tvHY8kYoTcfR8PlSfMAvTEsvENT72Om_A) of other apps that serve a similar purpose of detecting and relieving stress in university students or the general public.
## Meeting My Milestone
With the new syllabus, I am completely on track! I'm a little ahead because the gestures are in the hands of the other two masters design students.
## Looking Ahead
I plan to complete more of this competitive analysis and start looking into message sending through Android Apps.

There are no major surprises or extra resources needed at this time. I'm looking forward to making more progress on the project!



---