---
title: Sixth Biweekly Update
date: 2019-04-24 08:47:13
---

## Major Changes
The [syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FP9NxLKu0oAbKUnAQtEWmshNW047A-YwUBGoOy_lv50/edit) has been updated! My final deliverable is now separate from the frontend implementation; instead, i am focusing purely on the backend structure being present so that I can pick up on frontend once the summer starts.<br>

## Accomplishments These Two Weeks
This is the "Looking Ahead" section from the last milestone, and the milestone for this week:
> I'll be ensuring that the backend is mostly setup while the designs start coming in; this includes system design for matching people, storing heartrate variability in Firebase, and sensing variability anomalies. We're looking at potentially sensing other contextual information other than user input (calendar events, location, being physically among other people). Hopefully by the end of two weeks, I'll have some of the frontend done as well!

The frontend has been delayed--the two masters students are still working on the full designs for the finished design, so I am building the individual pieces that are absolutely necessary, and piecing them together as the flow of the app is decided. I met with the two design students and they've been iterating on many different versions of the app. We're considering many different ways that people could be paired up with their "supporters", and each scenario leads to a different kind of app. In the meantime, I built the essential parts of the app that would be present no matter what direction we would take it:
* Stores all RR intervals inside the database, marking the segments at which stress was detected (estimated that the free Firebase can hold about 50 days worth of 10 people's data)
* Creating a notification system for when stress is detected--user feedback is taken in and the thresholds for detecting stress are adjusted based whether the notification accurately identified a moment of stress
* Implementing "minigames" associated with the gestures that I've already implemented in past weeks: raising the phone to pop a balloon, opening a box
* Looking into location: we would like to be able to match people up based on which building they are in (physically, CMU-specific), and Google's Location API does have approximate addresses that I'm hooking up with the application.

## Meeting My Milestone

My milestones have changed a bit (no longer including the frontend design in my final deliverable), but otherwise, I am on track!

## Looking Ahead

I'll be making a full working prototype of the backend through a complete flow through the application: this includes authentication, homepage, giving and receiving support, and inputting calendar events for potentially stressful moments. In the meantime, I'll be documenting all of my code in a report and work on my posters for Meeting of the Minds.

---