---
title: Fourth Biweekly Update
date: 2019-03-20 16:12:11
---

## Major Changes
 We're placing a bit more emphasis on the gesture user studies so we switched around some week's worth of work, but the [syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FP9NxLKu0oAbKUnAQtEWmshNW047A-YwUBGoOy_lv50/edit) still stands!<br>


## Accomplishments These Two Weeks
This is the "Looking Ahead" section from the last milestone, and the milestone for this week:
> Within the next two weeks, I hope to be done with gesture recognition, which includes being able
to detect it locally with my phone and with others playing around with the gestures as well. I
also hope to write the documentation for the backend and current code so that Fannie and others
can more easily navigate my code.

I now have all gestures so far that are pretty consistently detectable! I'm still adding more parameters to make the sensing more robust, but now we have a working prototype for the 4 gestures:
* Hands in (hunching over)
* Hands out (waving, phone facing outwards)
* Hug (phone on left shoulder, user "hugging" themselves)
* Hands on temples (hand with phone put on temple)

The development consisted mostly of trial and error, looking at the actual trends in the sensor data. I also had a couple of friends informally test out the gesture detection and they brought up some good variability for me to implement other scenarios (slower motions, longer arms, etc.).

Over spring break, I spent some time implementing a dummy app mostly just for exploring how the interaction for sending messages and gestures will be best. It's set up to allow users to shake to send a message, and a fake user sends a message back after a couple of seconds. I also spent some time cleaning up my code and writing [documentation](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Uy5n_pG1bpoMTmUltuhQlAV77MDIksDBpll1MVKG8iE) for the gestures and how they're detected.

## Meeting My Milestone

I met my milestone for these past few weeks! We might have some more gestures coming after more of the user studies finish up this week, but I think I'll be able to add more gestures much quicker now that I've done four pretty successfully.

## Looking Ahead

I'll be writing my abstract this weekend and getting some feedback from Fannie before submitting to Meeting of the Minds before next Wednesday. I'm also starting to meet with the design team so that we can work on getting started with the front-end design. In the meantime, I'm looking at being able to get heartbeat data from the Polar H10 Heart Rate Sensor. There is also more refining for the existing gestures, and keeping up with more gestures that will come out this week.

---