---
title: Third Biweekly Update
date: 2019-02-27 15:27:31
---

## Major Changes
 There have been no major changes to the project; timeline is still the same, and
 project specs in the [syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FP9NxLKu0oAbKUnAQtEWmshNW047A-YwUBGoOy_lv50/edit) are still being followed.<br>


## Accomplishments These Two Weeks
This is the "Looking Ahead" section from the last milestone, and the milestone for this week:
> I'll be refining the baseline code that I have, and will start to flesh out the gestures and how
they'll be detected. I also plan to set aside some time to write full specifications of the database
and flow of intents in the Android app.

Most of the gestures have been decided. The past two weeks were refining the database
accesses, so the documentation hasn't been written up yet.

For the gesture detection, we've decided to move towards using Tensorflow and training a model
based off plots of sensor data from the phone. I spent the majority of the first week setting
up the app that takes in data, and the second week ensuring that the data was being properly saved
into .log files.

Now, we're working on training the data with Tensorflow--right now, the accuracy of the model
looks unconvincing (50%), so we're trying to start from scratch with the Tensorflow model that
we built.

In the meantime, I'm also now implementing basic version of gesture detection just based on raw
sensor data and my observations of how the sensors change depending on gestures.

## Meeting My Milestone
I am a little behind because of the Tensorflow backup, but once we get the model to start working,
the gestures will be all complete and we'll be right on track. I also plan to have a baseline
application in case the Tensorflow models don't work out.

## Looking Ahead
Within the next two weeks, I hope to be done with gesture recognition, which includes being able
to detect it locally with my phone and with others playing around with the gestures as well. I
also hope to write the documentation for the backend and current code so that Fannie and others
can more easily navigate my code.



---