---
title: Fifth Biweekly Update
date: 2019-04-03 17:47:13
---

## Major Changes
The [syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FP9NxLKu0oAbKUnAQtEWmshNW047A-YwUBGoOy_lv50/edit) still stands!<br>

## Accomplishments These Two Weeks
This is the "Looking Ahead" section from the last milestone, and the milestone for this week:
> I'll be writing my abstract this weekend and getting some feedback from Fannie before submitting to Meeting of the Minds before next Wednesday. I'm also starting to meet with the design team so that we can work on getting started with the front-end design. In the meantime, I'm looking at being able to get heartbeat data from the Polar H10 Heart Rate Sensor. There is also more refining for the existing gestures, and keeping up with more gestures that will come out this week.

Last week I sat in on some design meetings with the two Masters HCI students--we spent a couple of hours on an affinity diagram design, and talked about overarching themes within the observations for pilot user studies. I also had a couple of more mentorship talks with both of my advisors about potential plans after graduation!

This week the design team met separately while I got the application to connect with the Polar H10 via Bluetooth--right now I can read heartrate and the RR interval, which measures milliseconds between heart beats. I'm now reading some papers and figuring out how others have calculated heartrate variability. We might potentially reopen the Tensorflow conversation again, this time with TensorFlow Lite ML algorithms for heartrate variability-specific needs.

I've also submitted my title and abstract to Meeting of the Minds!

## Meeting My Milestone

I've met all of my milestones thus far, I'm trying to get a little bit ahead and stay on top of all of the tasks--once the medium fidelity designs come out, there will be lots to do!

## Looking Ahead

I'll be ensuring that the backend is mostly setup while the designs start coming in; this includes system design for matching people, storing heartrate variability in Firebase, and sensing variability anomalies. We're looking at potentially sensing other contextual information other than user input (calendar events, location, being physically among other people). Hopefully by the end of two weeks, I'll have some of the frontend done as well!

---